journal-- PhysAI robotics Hackathon 2/2026 Solo Tech


##### Claude-- save this as my journal/recollection of the event ##### -- but add this quick story somewhere I'll find it easily:  My (short) post-recollection:

The event was super exciting, the most exciting one I've done yet-- starting with the team matching 3-4 days prior (they did this purportedly to know who to assign robots to but also probably to determine acceptance/waitlist to the event.  They also didn't release the full count of robots until asked-- and it changed in the days leading up to the event, so they were probably still firming that up.

I wanted to get at least SOME robotics experience if I could-- so I looked into where I could operate one of the robots ClaudeAI recommended we try (it zeroed in on an arm like the SO101).  My first search saw it was too late to get one from Amazon (or anywhere else, even emailed a company about expediting that turned out to be in SF-- but they didn't get back to me until after I'd hit purchase on Amazon.  I also asked in Noisebridge discord about borrowing or using one-- they have an active robotics community worth checking out more.  One guy offered for me to pick his up but again-- after I found one on Amazon.  I also messaged a guy (Ismael) on FB marketplace that turned out to be a co-host of the event!

Anyways, I bought an SO101 to arrive the day before the event-- for around $350 + printed parts + clamps and a webcam Claude said I'd need-- total around $450ish.  But resale value looks good on them on ebay, and so far I don't regret purchasing-- at the time we were still worried they wouldn't have enough robots to go around at the event too.

Anyways, it took maybe 6-7 hours to build the bot the day/night before-- it only came with a QR code to the repo (lerobot repo I think)-- and I still have yet to find an all-in-one official manual with instructions good for robotics newbies.  Things like which way to attach the flywheels on the servos were found more easily by zooming in on a video installation than by googling.

Anyways-- during the event.  We had a team of 5.  I was the only guy above 30.  One guy was shy enough he mostly wandered off and wasn't around enough by our team submission to include (so we submitted as 4).  Another guy (who trained our model overnight) claimed food poisoning and didn't show on day 2 either (Sunday).

I felt like I mostly contributed (though  not on the model training-- I do still intend to go back through the model training to follow his footsteps) by bringing the robot, and by getting us maybe half of the way to recording the leader-follower training data we'd use (which might have been of limited value anyways since we only had 25ish runs added to idk how many piggybacked episodes from the previously existing data set-- which I insisted we look for though, and which might have been a large part of our succes-- I got as far on my laptop as successfully setting up the leader-follower teleoperation (with good calibration we had to troubleshoot a bit), but the camera backend wasn't working after an hour or 2 of trying to hack it, so Siddha (a freshman? at NYU who flew in just for this!) installed it all on his Macbook and surpassed where I'd gotten to -- with tips from me along the way-- and they still needed my Win laptop to troubleshoot the motor IDs -- which randomly got reassigned at least twice (first time I may have not assigned them correct, idk) We also had random-seeming port issues that may have been due to having too many usbs on one hub (we eventually chained a usb hub to another that was video enabled, which we had 2 of, but one had a frayed wire-- also basically 3 teams were all working off the same wall outlet on multiple power adapters chained!)

Anyways, he got the camera working so the model would work 'with vision'... we had 2 cameras, one on the claw and one on a 'tripod' we made by putting  our full water bottles into empty boxes coke cans come in.  We rushed to get in as many RL episodes (of the leader arm controlling the follower to pour water) and spent the last hour or so to get 25 episodes (we were told to aim for 50).

Udit (the team 'organizer' who invited my 'team' of me and Kush to join them) trained the model overnight, and we ran it in the morning.  At first it didn't seem to do much-- it seemed to activate but only random small movements with the arm in place.  BUT after we got, I think, the cameras working? or something-- all of a sudden it clicked, and it grabbed the bottle as we had and slowly (often shakily) poured it into the cup! 

SUCH an OMG/AHA moment.  SUPER feeling.

Many times it would be shaky and stop or oscillate right before pouring.  But after the first few runs it seemed to be getting the pour at least most or all in the cup 70-80% of the time!

Suffice to say it felt pretty cool to have done for a team with basically nil previous experience with robotics!



Anyways, by the evening it had stopped working consistently-- someone had bumped our hacked soda-box tripod, and we heard the models can be super sensitive to camera angle/positioning/other conditions.  By the time we were judging it was barely pouring 1/2 the time, if that. It got super jerky for awhile and would suddenly BITE the cup/snap like a bird.  We probably should have spent more of the morning/afternoon testing and making sure things were consistent but we were mostly flying blind on many things and had to resort to asking AI and organizers what to do.



I also got the cameras working with teleoperation on my Win laptop, but not sure if I got recording to work.  Perhaps I can figure it out myself at home-- the robot only takes 30 min to set up or so.



We didn't win-- the top 7 teams (out of a few hundred people there) presented, and top 3 won $3k/2k/1k with a couple other smaller prizes.  Winning team had a guy with years of robotics experienece-- they strictly controlled their training environment (with tote bags on either side to make a mini-'room') and even trained the model 10-20 times with interrupting it, pulling the target cup to the side while the leader operator still poured in the right place.



I was amazed to meet everyone and take in the energy.

There's a follow-up event by same organizer (SoloTech) in March; it's on my radar to go to-- though now OpenClaw just came out and I'm also excited about that.